## **Course 301: Read 08**


### **API Design Best Practices:**
#### **What does REST stand for?**
Representational State Transfer.

#### **REST APIs are designed around a ____.**
Designed around resources.

#### **What is an identifer of a resource? Give an example.**
A URI that uniquely identifies that resource. For example, the URI for a particular customer order might be:
    
    https://adventure-works.com/orders/1



#### **What are the most common HTTP verbs?**
The most common operations are GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE.

#### **What should the URIs be based on?**
Resource URIs should be based on nouns (the resource) and not verbs (the operations on the resource).

#### **Give an example of a good URI.**

    https://adventure-works.com/orders


#### **What does it mean to have a ‘chatty’ web API? Is this a good or a bad thing?**
**"chatty"** web APIs that expose a large number of small resources. Such API may require a client application to send multiple requests to find all of the data that it requires. And we should avoid using such API's and instead denormalizing the data and combining related information into bigger resources.

#### **What status code does a successful GET request return?**
HTTP status code **200 (OK)**.

#### **What status code does an unsuccessful GET request return?**
HTTP status code **404 (Not Found)**.

#### **What status code does a successful POST request return?**
HTTP status code **201 (Created)**.

#### **What status code does a successful DELETE request return?**
HTTP status code **204**.




## Things I want to know more about
+ About nouns and variables and the differences between them.
+ HTTP requests and how to use them efficiently.



[Home Page](../README.md)
