## **Course 301: Read 14**


### **Consider the history: That Time When Women Stopped Coding:**
#### **What occured during the same time as the beginning of the decline of women in computer sciene?**
 The share of women in computer science started falling at roughly the same moment when personal computers started showing up in U.S. homes in significant numbers.

#### **Why does it matter that males had been playing on computers growing up?**
Because it got them way ahead of females in computers and in solving problems.



>resource for this can be found here: https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2014/10/21/357629765/when-women-stopped-coding


### **Review the data: Employee breakdown of key technology companies:**
#### **What three take-a-ways do you have looking at this data?**
+ Tech companies are dominated by males.
+ America has majority of White people over any other Ethnicity.
+ CEO's are most likely men filling 96% of the positions.


>resource for this are in this video: https://informationisbeautiful.net/visualizations/diversity-in-tech/




### **Ask the question: Why diversity matters to your tech company:**
#### **When are diversity efforts most successful?**
Study after study in fields like organizational science, psychology and education indicate that diversity offers significant benefits for teams focused on creativity and innovation

#### **Why do diverse companies perform better?**
Becaues diversity makes teams smarter and is linked to positive business outcomes.  

#### **Give an example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base or vise-versa.**
When YouTube’s almost entirely right-handed developer team built the iOS app without considering how left-handed people would use it, for example, 5% to 10% of videos were uploaded upside down as a result. This factor may be especially relevant for leaders of consumer tech companies.




>resource for this are in this video: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/columnist/2015/07/21/why-diversity-matters-your-tech-company/30419871/


## Things I want to know more about
+ I would like to know more about the diversity in tech companies and how it affects working environments.



[Home Page](../README.md)
