## **Course 301: Read 06**


### **An Introduction to Node.js on sitepoint.com:**
#### **What is node.js?**
Node.js is an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google’s V8 JavaScript engine and libuv library.

#### **In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?**
It is the compiler which converts Javascript code to machine code that my computer can execute.

#### **What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?**
It compiles the code to make it executable.

#### **What is npm?**
NodePackageManager, a softawre registry responsible for downloading packages to your projects.

#### **What version of node are you running on your machine?**
Version v12.21.0

#### **What version of npm are you running on your machine?**
Version 6.14.11

#### **What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?**
    npm install -g jshint

#### **What is node used for?**
Installing (via npm) and running (via Node) various build tools — designed to automate the process of developing a modern JavaScript application.


### **6 Reasons for Pair Programming:**
#### **What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?**
1. Greater efficiency.
2. Engaged collaboration.
3. Learning from fellow students.
4. Social skills.
5. Job interview readiness.
6. Work environment readiness.

#### **In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?**
Even though they are all helpful, but I think that the Engaged collaboration was the most beneficial.

#### **How does pair programming work?**
Pair programming commonly involves two roles: the Driver and the Navigator. The Driver is the programmer who is typing and the only one whose hands are on the keyboard. The Navigator uses their words to guide the Driver but does not provide any direct input to the computer

## Things I want to know more about
+ Know more about what I can do with Node.js and it's packages.



[Home Page](../README.md)
