## **Course 301: Read 09**


### **Functional Programming Concepts:**
#### **What is functional programming?**
Functional programming is a programming paradigm — a style of building the structure and elements of computer programs — that treats computation as the evaluation of mathematical functions and avoids changing-state and mutable data.

#### **What is a pure function and how do we know if something is a pure function?**
It returns the same result if given the same arguments, Here is a very strict definition of purity:
+ It returns the same result if given the same arguments (it is also referred as deterministic).
+ It does not cause any observable side effects.

#### **What are the benefits of a pure function?**
The code’s definitely easier to test. We don’t need to mock anything. So we can unit test pure functions with different contexts.

#### **What is immutability?**
Unchanging over time or unable to be changed.

#### **What is Referential transparency?**
Unchanging over time or unable to be changed.
**pure functions + immutable data = referential transparency**



>resource for this can be found here: https://medium.com/the-renaissance-developer/concepts-of-functional-programming-in-javascript-6bc84220d2aa


### **Node JS Tutorial for Beginners #6 - Modules and require():**
#### **What is a module?**
Just another JavaScript file that does a certain functionality of the code.

#### **What does the word ‘require’ do?**
Defines an external module, so we can use it in that file.

#### **How do we bring another module into the file the we are working in?**
By using **module.exports** inside the module we want to use else where. And then we require it in our file so we can use the exported functionality.

#### **What do we have to do to make a module available?**
Export it using **module.exports**.

>resource for this are in this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xHLd36QoS4k



## Things I want to know more about
+ How to use the functional programming efficiently.
+ More about MVC's and modules and how to manipulate it.



[Home Page](../README.md)
