## **Course 401: Read 02**


### **Java Imports (ignore the parts about NetBeans):**
#### *Importing:*
There is three options to import:
+ Using the package name with *.
+ Using the pachage name with the specified classes (without using *).
+ Using the fully qualified class name without an import in the place we want to use it everytime.

### *improtaint to note:*
+ Import only tells the compiler where to look for symbols.
+ The search for names is very efficient so there is no effective difference when using import all classes with the "*" symbol.
+ The wildcard "*" only makes the classes in this package visible, not any of the subpackages.
+ All classes in the java.lang package are visible without an import like String and System.
+ The order of the imports is not important.

### *Static imports in Java 5:*
Java 5 added an import static option that allows static variables (typically constants) to be referenced without qualifying them with a class name. Adding this "feature" wasn't the best idea because it leads to name pollution and confusion about which class constants come from.

### **Different types of loops in Java:**
#### *types of loops in Java:*
+ Simple for loop.
+ Enhanced for-each loop.
+ While loop.
+ Do While loop.


>resources: 

>https://perso.ensta-paris.fr/~diam/java/online/notes-java/language/10basics/import.html

>https://www.baeldung.com/java-loops


## Things I want to know more about
+ Importing and using differnet packages in Java.



[Home Page](../README.md)
