## **Course 401: Read 08**


### **SOLID principles intro:**
#### *SOLID stands for:*
S - Single-responsiblity Principle
O - Open-closed Principle
L - Liskov Substitution Principle
I - Interface Segregation Principle
D - Dependency Inversion Principle

#### **Single-responsiblity Principle**
Single-responsibility Principle (SRP) states:

A class should have one and only one reason to change, meaning that a class should have only one job.

*example:*

in your day to day life, picture those "duck" vehicles you see occasionally in some lakeside towns. they're street legal and water-capable, so a duck tour affords you the unique and surreal experience of being in a 'car' that gets to the edge of the water and just keeps going. fun, right?

and yet, you don't see a whole lot of them. there are millions of families out there that own both cars and boats, and there are very few families that buy these ducks. do you know why? it's most likely because no one wants to be unable to drive to work because their boat rudder is broken. ducks are fun, but they're also a great example of the pitfalls that the srp can help you avoid.


#### **Open-closed Principle**
Open-closed Principle (OCP) states:

Objects or entities should be open for extension but closed for modification.

*example:*

in your day to day life, picture those "duck" vehicles you see occasionally in some lakeside towns. they're street legal and water-capable, so a duck tour affords you the unique and surreal experience of being in a 'car' that gets to the edge of the water and just keeps going. fun, right?

and yet, you don't see a whole lot of them. there are millions of families out there that own both cars and boats, and there are very few families that buy these ducks. do you know why? it's most likely because no one wants to be unable to drive to work because their boat rudder is broken. ducks are fun, but they're also a great example of the pitfalls that the srp can help you avoid.


#### **Liskov Substitution Principle**
Liskov Substitution Principle states:

Let q(x) be a property provable about objects of x of type T. Then q(y) should be provable for objects y of type S where S is a subtype of T.

*example:*

o picture this, imagine cooking yourself a stew. if you're anything like me, you'd only put things in there that were edible because you would want to eat the stew without picking through each bite, asking yourself repeatedly, "is this edible?"


#### **Interface Segregation Principle**
Interface Segregation Principle
Interface segregation principle states:

A client should never be forced to implement an interface that it doesn’t use, or clients shouldn’t be forced to depend on methods they do not use.

*example:*
Think of going down to your local corner restaurant and checking out the menu. you'll see all of the normal menu mainstays, and then something that's just called "soup of the day." why do they do this? because the soup changes a lot and there's no sense reprinting the menus every day. clients that don't care about the soup needn't even be concerned, and clients that do use a different interface -- asking the server.


#### **Dependency Inversion Principle**
Dependency inversion principle states:

Entities must depend on abstractions, not on concretions. It states that the high-level module must not depend on the low-level module, but they should depend on abstractions.

*example:*

Go down to your local store and pay for something with a credit card. the clerk doesn't examine your card and get out the "visa machine" after seeing that your card is a visa. he just takes your card, whatever it is, and swipes it. both you and the clerk depend on the credit card abstraction without worrying about specifics.




**resources:** 

*https://www.digitalocean.com/community/conceptual_articles/s-o-l-i-d-the-first-five-principles-of-object-oriented-design*

*https://dzone.com/articles/the-solid-principles-in-real-life*




## Things I want to know more about
+ SOLID principles and how to use them.



[Home Page](../README.md)
