## **Course 401: Read 12**


### **Baeldung: Spring Request Mapping**
#### @RequestMapping — by Path

    RequestMapping(value = "/ex/foos", method = RequestMethod.GET)
    @ResponseBody
    public String getFoosBySimplePath() {
        return "Get some Foos";
    }

#### @RequestMapping — the HTTP Method

    @RequestMapping(value = "/ex/foos", method = POST)
    @ResponseBody
    public String postFoos() {
        return "Post some Foos";
    }


### **Spring guide: Accessing Data with JPA**
**The steps are simple:**
+ Starting with Spring Initializr.
+ Define a Simple Entity.
+ Create Simple Queries.
+ Create an Application Class.
+ Build an executable JAR.


### **Baeldung: Comparing repositories**
+ *CrudRepository:* provides CRUD functions.
    + save(…) – save an Iterable of entities. Here, we can pass multiple objects to save them in a batch.
    + findOne(…) – get a single entity based on passed primary key value.
    + findAll() – get an Iterable of all available entities in database.
    + count() – return the count of total entities in a table.
    + delete(…) – delete an entity based on the passed object.
    + exists(…) – verify if an entity exists based on the passed primary key value.

+ *PagingAndSortingRepository:* provides methods to do pagination and sort records.
    + Page size.
    + Current page number.
    + Sorting.

+ *JpaRepository:* provides JPA related methods such as flushing the persistence context and delete records in a batch.
    + findAll() – get a List of all available entities in database.
    + findAll(…) – get a List of all available entities and sort them using the provided condition.
    + save(…) – save an Iterable of entities. Here, we can pass multiple objects to save them in a batch.
    + flush() – flush all pending task to the database.
    + saveAndFlush(…) – save the entity and flush changes immediately.
    + deleteInBatch(…) – delete an Iterable of entities. Here, we can pass multiple objects to delete them in a batch.


**resources:** 

*https://www.baeldung.com/spring-requestmapping*

*https://spring.io/guides/gs/accessing-data-jpa/*

*https://spring.io/guides/gs/accessing-data-jpa/*




[Home Page](../README.md)
