## **Course 401: Read 04**


### **Java OO Tutorial:**
#### *What Is an Object?:*
Real-world objects share two characteristics: They all have state and behavior. Dogs have state (name, color, breed, hungry) and behavior (barking, fetching, wagging tail). Bicycles also have state (current gear, current pedal cadence, current speed) and behavior (changing gear, changing pedal cadence, applying brakes). Identifying the state and behavior for real-world objects is a great way to begin thinking in terms of object-oriented programming.

Software objects are conceptually similar to real-world objects: they too consist of state and related behavior. An object stores its state in fields (variables in some programming languages) and exposes its behavior through methods (functions in some programming languages). Methods operate on an object's internal state and serve as the primary mechanism for object-to-object communication. Hiding internal state and requiring all interaction to be performed through an object's methods is known as data encapsulation — a fundamental principle of object-oriented programming.

#### *What Is a Class?:*
In the real world, you'll often find many individual objects all of the same kind. There may be thousands of other bicycles in existence, all of the same make and model. Each bicycle was built from the same set of blueprints and therefore contains the same components. In object-oriented terms, we say that your bicycle is an instance of the class of objects known as bicycles. A class is the blueprint from which individual objects are created.


### **Java Classes:**
#### **Classes: (Example)**
    public class Bicycle {
        
        // the Bicycle class has
        // three fields
        public int cadence;
        public int gear;
        public int speed;
            
        // the Bicycle class has
        // one constructor
        public Bicycle(int startCadence, int startSpeed, int startGear) {
            gear = startGear;
            cadence = startCadence;
            speed = startSpeed;
        }
            
        // the Bicycle class has
        // four methods
        public void setCadence(int newValue) {
            cadence = newValue;
        }
            
        public void setGear(int newValue) {
            gear = newValue;
        }
            
        public void applyBrake(int decrement) {
            speed -= decrement;
        }
            
        public void speedUp(int increment) {
            speed += increment;
        }
            
    }

#### **Object: (Example)**
    public class CreateObjectDemo {

        public static void main(String[] args) {
            
            // Declare and create a point object and two rectangle objects.
            Point originOne = new Point(23, 94);
            Rectangle rectOne = new Rectangle(originOne, 100, 200);
            Rectangle rectTwo = new Rectangle(50, 100);
            
            // display rectOne's width, height, and area
            System.out.println("Width of rectOne: " + rectOne.width);
            System.out.println("Height of rectOne: " + rectOne.height);
            System.out.println("Area of rectOne: " + rectOne.getArea());
            
            // set rectTwo's position
            rectTwo.origin = originOne;
            
            // display rectTwo's position
            System.out.println("X Position of rectTwo: " + rectTwo.origin.x);
            System.out.println("Y Position of rectTwo: " + rectTwo.origin.y);
            
            // move rectTwo and display its new position
            rectTwo.move(40, 72);
            System.out.println("X Position of rectTwo: " + rectTwo.origin.x);
            System.out.println("Y Position of rectTwo: " + rectTwo.origin.y);
        }
    }

And here is the output:
    Width of rectOne: 100
    Height of rectOne: 200
    Area of rectOne: 20000
    X Position of rectTwo: 23
    Y Position of rectTwo: 94
    X Position of rectTwo: 40
    Y Position of rectTwo: 72

#### **Enum Types:(Example)**
An enum type is a special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants. The variable must be equal to one of the values that have been predefined for it. Common examples include compass directions (values of NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, and WEST) and the days of the week.

Because they are constants, the names of an enum type's fields are in uppercase letters.

In the Java programming language, you define an enum type by using the enum keyword. For example, you would specify a days-of-the-week enum type as:
    public enum Day {
        SUNDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
        THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY 
    }

### **Binary, Decimal and Hexadecimal Numbers:**
#### *Decimals:*
Every digit in a decimal number has a "position", and the decimal point helps us to know which position is which. 
The position just to the left of the point is the "Ones" position. 
Every position further to the left is 10 times bigger, and every position further to the right is 10 times smaller. 

#### *Bases:*
The Decimal Number System is also called "Base 10", because it is based on the number 10. 
with these 10 symbols but notice something interesting: there is no symbol for "ten". "10" is actually two symbols put together, a "1" and a "0".

#### *Counting with Different Number Systems:*
But you don't have to use 10 as a "Base". You could use 2 ("Binary"), 16 ("Hexadecimal"), or any number you want to. For example:
    In binary you count "0,1,..." but then you run out of symbols!
    So you add 1 on the left and then start again at 0: 10,11 ...

So the general rule is:
    Count up until just before the "Base Number", then start at 0 again, but first you add 1 to the number on your left.

#### *Binary Numbers:*
are just "Base 2" instead of "Base 10". So you start counting at 0, then 1, then you run out of digits ... so you start back at 0 again, but increase the number on the left by 1.

#### *Hexadecimal Numbers:*
They look the same as the decimal numbers up to 9, but then there are the letters ("A',"B","C","D","E","F") in place of the decimal numbers 10 to 15.
So a single Hexadecimal digit can show 16 different values instead of the normal 10 like this:

Decimal:|	0|	1|	2|	3|	4|	5|	6|	7|	8|	9|	10|	11|	12|	13|	14|	15
-------------- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- 
Hexadecimal:|	0|	1|	2|	3|	4|	5|	6|	7|	8|	9|	A|	B|	C|	D|	E|	F




**resources:** 
*https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/*
*https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/classes.html*
*https://www.mathsisfun.com/binary-decimal-hexadecimal.html*



## Things I want to know more about
+ Enums and how to use them.
+ Binary, Decimal and Hexadecimal Numbers and why do we use each of them.



[Home Page](../README.md)

