## **Course 401: Read 14**


### **Recursion:**
#### Definition 
The process in which a function calls itself directly or indirectly is called recursion and the corresponding function is called as recursive function.


#### Base condition
It is the case when the recursion stops, and the methods in the call stack starts returning the values, each method returns a value that its caller is waiting for, one by one, until the call stack is empty, and the main method return the intended value.

    int fact(int n)
    {
        if (n < = 1) // base case
            return 1;
        else    
            return n*fact(n-1);    
    }


### Note that
*Stack Overflow error* occurs if the base case is not reached or not defined, then the stack overflow problem may arise.


*Diiference between tailed and non-tailed recursions* is that a recursive function is tail recursive when recursive call is the last thing executed by the function.


### **Trees:**

#### Common Terminology
+ Node - A Tree node is a component which may contain it’s own values, and references to other nodes.
+ Root - The root is the node at the beginning of the tree.
+ K - A number that specifies the maximum number of children any node may have in a k-ary tree. In a binary tree, k = 2..
+ Left - A reference to one child node, in a binary tree.
+ Right - A reference to the other child node, in a binary tree.
+ Edge - The edge in a tree is the link between a parent and child node.
+ Leaf - A leaf is a node that does not have any children.
+ Height - The height of a tree is the number of edges from the root to the furthest leaf.


#### Depth First
Depth first traversal is where we prioritize going through the depth (height) of the tree first.

Here are three methods for depth first traversal:
+ Pre-order: root >> left >> right
+ In-order: left >> root >> right
+ Post-order: left >> right >> root


#### Breadth First
Breadth first traversal iterates through the tree by going through each level of the tree node-by-node.





**resources:** 

*https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/recursion/*

*https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-15/resources/Trees.html*




[Home Page](../README.md)
