## **Course 401: Read 06**


### **Java OO Tutorial:**
#### *What Is Inheritance?*
Different kinds of objects often have a certain amount in common with each other. Mountain bikes, road bikes, and tandem bikes, for example, all share the characteristics of bicycles (current speed, current pedal cadence, current gear). Yet each also defines additional features that make them different: tandem bicycles have two seats and two sets of handlebars; road bikes have drop handlebars; some mountain bikes have an additional chain ring, giving them a lower gear ratio.

The syntax for creating a subclass is simple. At the beginning of your class declaration, use the extends keyword, followed by the name of the class to inherit from:
    class MountainBike extends Bicycle {

        // new fields and methods defining 
        // a mountain bike would go here

    }


#### *What Is an Interface?*
As you've already learned, objects define their interaction with the outside world through the methods that they expose. Methods form the object's interface with the outside world; the buttons on the front of your television set, for example, are the interface between you and the electrical wiring on the other side of its plastic casing. You press the "power" button to turn the television on and off.

    interface Bicycle {

        //  wheel revolutions per minute
        void changeCadence(int newValue);

        void changeGear(int newValue);

        void speedUp(int increment);

        void applyBrakes(int decrement);
    }

Implementing an interface allows a class to become more formal about the behavior it promises to provide. Interfaces form a contract between the class and the outside world, and this contract is enforced at build time by the compiler. If your class claims to implement an interface, all methods defined by that interface must appear in its source code before the class will successfully compile.

#### *What Is a Package?*
A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. Conceptually you can think of packages as being similar to different folders on your computer. You might keep HTML pages in one folder, images in another, and scripts or applications in yet another. Because software written in the Java programming language can be composed of hundreds or thousands of individual classes, it makes sense to keep things organized by placing related classes and interfaces into packages.

The Java platform provides an enormous class library (a set of packages) suitable for use in your own applications. This library is known as the "Application Programming Interface", or "API" for short. Its packages represent the tasks most commonly associated with general-purpose programming.


### **Java Inheritance & Interfaces Tutorial:**
#### *Interfaces:*
In the Java programming language, an interface is a reference type, similar to a class, that can contain only constants, method signatures, default methods, static methods, and nested types. Method bodies exist only for default methods and static methods. Interfaces cannot be instantiated—they can only be implemented by classes or extended by other interfaces. Extension is discussed later in this lesson.

Defining an interface is similar to creating a new class:

    public interface OperateCar {

    // constant declarations, if any

    // method signatures
    
    // An enum with values RIGHT, LEFT
    int turn(Direction direction,
                double radius,
                double startSpeed,
                double endSpeed);
    int changeLanes(Direction direction,
                    double startSpeed,
                    double endSpeed);
    int signalTurn(Direction direction,
                    boolean signalOn);
    int getRadarFront(double distanceToCar,
                        double speedOfCar);
    int getRadarRear(double distanceToCar,
                        double speedOfCar);
            ......
    // more method signatures
    }

To use an interface, you write a class that implements the interface. When an instantiable class implements an interface, it provides a method body for each of the methods declared in the interface. For example,

    public class OperateBMW760i implements OperateCar {

        // the OperateCar method signatures, with implementation --
        // for example:
        public int signalTurn(Direction direction, boolean signalOn) {
        // code to turn BMW's LEFT turn indicator lights on
        // code to turn BMW's LEFT turn indicator lights off
        // code to turn BMW's RIGHT turn indicator lights on
        // code to turn BMW's RIGHT turn indicator lights off
        }

        // other members, as needed -- for example, helper classes not 
        // visible to clients of the interface
    }


#### *Inheritance:*
Definitions: A class that is derived from another class is called a subclass (also a derived class, extended class, or child class). The class from which the subclass is derived is called a superclass (also a base class or a parent class).

Here is the sample code for a possible implementation of a Bicycle class that was presented in the Classes and Objects lesson:

    public class Bicycle {
            
        // the Bicycle class has three fields
        public int cadence;
        public int gear;
        public int speed;
            
        // the Bicycle class has one constructor
        public Bicycle(int startCadence, int startSpeed, int startGear) {
            gear = startGear;
            cadence = startCadence;
            speed = startSpeed;
        }
            
        // the Bicycle class has four methods
        public void setCadence(int newValue) {
            cadence = newValue;
        }
            
        public void setGear(int newValue) {
            gear = newValue;
        }
            
        public void applyBrake(int decrement) {
            speed -= decrement;
        }
            
        public void speedUp(int increment) {
            speed += increment;
        }
            
    }

A class declaration for a MountainBike class that is a subclass of Bicycle might look like this:

    public class MountainBike extends Bicycle {
            
        // the MountainBike subclass adds one field
        public int seatHeight;

        // the MountainBike subclass has one constructor
        public MountainBike(int startHeight,
                            int startCadence,
                            int startSpeed,
                            int startGear) {
            super(startCadence, startSpeed, startGear);
            seatHeight = startHeight;
        }   
            
        // the MountainBike subclass adds one method
        public void setHeight(int newValue) {
            seatHeight = newValue;
        }   
    }




**resources:** 

*https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/*

*https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/index.html*




## Things I want to know more about
+ Inheritance, interfaces and how to implement them.



[Home Page](../README.md)
