## **Course 401: Read 05**


### **Linked Lists:**
#### *What is a Linked List?*
A Linked List is a sequence of Nodes that are connected/linked to each other. The most defining feature of a Linked List is that each Node references the next Node in the link.

#### *How to use a Linked List?*
When traversing a linked list, you are not able to use a foreach or for loop. We depend on the Next value in each node to guide us where the next reference is pointing. The Next property is exceptionally important because it will lead us where the next node is and allow us to extract the data appropriately.

The best way to approach a traversal is through the use of a while() loop. This allows us to continually check that the Next node in the list is not null. If we accidentally end up trying to traverse on a node that is null, a NullReferenceException gets thrown and our program will crash/end.

When traversing through a linked list, the Current variable will tell us where exactly in the linked list we are and will allow us to move/traverse forward until we hit the end.

**Traversal Example: (includes method)**
    ALGORITHM Includes (value)
    // INPUT <-- integer value
    // OUTPUT <-- boolean

    Current <-- Head

    WHILE Current is not NULL
        IF Current.Value is equal to value
        return TRUE

        Current <-- Current.Next

    return FALSE

**Traversal Big O**
The Big O of time for Includes would be O(n). This is because, at its worse case, the node we are looking for will be the very last node in the linked list. n represents the number of nodes in the linked list.

#### *Linear data structures:*
One characteristic of linked lists is that they are linear data structures, which means that there is a sequence and an order to how they are constructed and traversed. We can think of a linear data structure like a game of hopscotch: in order to get to the end of the list, we have to go through all of the items in the list in order, or sequentially. Linear structures, however, are the opposite of non-linear structures. In non-linear data structures, items don’t have to be arranged in order, which means that we could traverse the data structure non-sequentially.

It can be helpful to think of arrays and linked lists as being similar in the way that we sequence data. In both of these structures, order matters. **But what makes arrays and linked lists different?**

#### *Why Linked List?*
**Memory management**, the fundamental difference between arrays and linked lists is that arrays are static data structures, while linked lists are dynamic data structures. A static data structure needs all of its resources to be allocated when the structure is created; this means that even if the structure was to grow or shrink in size and elements were to be added or removed, it still always needs a given size and amount of memory. If more elements needed to be added to a static data structure and it didn’t have enough memory, you’d need to copy the data of that array, for example, and recreate it with more memory, so that you could add elements to it.

On the other hand, a dynamic data structure can shrink and grow in memory. It doesn’t need a set amount of memory to be allocated in order to exist, and its size and shape can change, and the amount of memory it needs can change as well.


#### **Types of Linked Lists:**
+ Singly linked lists (simplest).
+ Doubly linked lists.
+ Circular linked lists (which can be either singly or doubly).


**Keep in mind:**
*a linked list is usually efficient when it comes to adding and removing most elements, but can be very slow to search and find a single element.*



**resources:** 
*https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-05/resources/singly_linked_list.html*
*https://medium.com/basecs/whats-a-linked-list-anyway-part-1-d8b7e6508b9d*
*https://medium.com/basecs/whats-a-linked-list-anyway-part-2-131d96f71996*


## Things I want to know more about
+ data structures and how to implement them.



[Home Page](../README.md)
