## **Course 401: Read 09**


### **Review: High-level HTTP:**
+ Step 1: Local Processing
The browser will then look through its own cache of recently requested URLs, the operating system’s cache of recent queries, your router’s cache, and your DNS cache.

+ Step 2: Resolve an IP
Like the processing done locally, resolving an IP from a "DNS server" is a sequence that includes many steps, and includes failovers if the first request fails to return an address.

+ Step 3: Establish a TCP Connection
Now that the client has an IP address, it can send an HTTP request, right? Almost, but first, since the request is sent over TCP, which is a transport layer protocol like UDP, the client must open a TCP connection.

+ Step 4: Send an HTTP Request
Now that the client has an IP address and a TCP connection, it can finally send an HTTP request

+ Step 5: Tearing Down and Cleaning Up
Four way handshake signals will be made between the client and the server to end the TCP connection between them.

At this point, your browser begins processing what it has received.



### **Java HTTP Request example:**
1. HttpURLConnection:
The HttpUrlConnection class allows us to perform basic HTTP requests without the use of any additional libraries. All the classes that we need are part of the java.net package.


2. Creating a Request:
We can create an HttpUrlConnection instance using the openConnection() method of the URL class. Note that this method only creates a connection object but doesn't establish the connection yet.

        URL url = new URL("http://example.com");
        HttpURLConnection con = (HttpURLConnection) url.openConnection();
        con.setRequestMethod("GET");

3. Adding Request Parameters:
we have to set the doOutput property to true, then write a String of the form param1=value¶m2=value to the OutputStream of the HttpUrlConnection instance:

        Map<String, String> parameters = new HashMap<>();
        parameters.put("param1", "val");

        con.setDoOutput(true);
        DataOutputStream out = new DataOutputStream(con.getOutputStream());
        out.writeBytes(ParameterStringBuilder.getParamsString(parameters));
        out.flush();
        out.close();
  

4. Setting Request Headers:
Adding headers to a request can be achieved by using the setRequestProperty() method:

        con.setRequestProperty("Content-Type", "application/json");

To read the value of a header from a connection, we can use the getHeaderField() method:

        String contentType = con.getHeaderField("Content-Type");



5. Configuring Timeouts:
HttpUrlConnection class allows setting the connect and read timeouts:

        con.setConnectTimeout(5000);
        con.setReadTimeout(5000);

6. Handling Cookies:

First, to read the cookies from a response, we can retrieve the value of the Set-Cookie header and parse it to a list of HttpCookie objects:

        String cookiesHeader = con.getHeaderField("Set-Cookie");
        List<HttpCookie> cookies = HttpCookie.parse(cookiesHeader);

Next, we will add the cookies to the cookie store:

        cookies.forEach(cookie -> cookieManager.getCookieStore().add(null, cookie));

        Optional<HttpCookie> usernameCookie = cookies.stream()
        .findAny().filter(cookie -> cookie.getName().equals("username"));
        if (usernameCookie == null) {
            cookieManager.getCookieStore().add(null, new HttpCookie("username", "john"));
        }

        con.disconnect();
        con = (HttpURLConnection) url.openConnection();

        con.setRequestProperty("Cookie", 
        StringUtils.join(cookieManager.getCookieStore().getCookies(), ";"));


Handling Redirects:
We can enable or disable automatically following redirects for a specific connection by using the setInstanceFollowRedirects() method with true or false parameter:

        con.setInstanceFollowRedirects(false);

It is also possible to enable or disable automatic redirect for all connections:

        HttpUrlConnection.setFollowRedirects(false);

By default, the behavior is enabled.

9. Reading the Response:
Reading the response of the request can be done by parsing the InputStream of the HttpUrlConnection instance.

        int status = con.getResponseCode();

        BufferedReader in = new BufferedReader(
        new InputStreamReader(con.getInputStream()));
        String inputLine;
        StringBuffer content = new StringBuffer();
        while ((inputLine = in.readLine()) != null) {
            content.append(inputLine);
        }
        in.close();

        con.disconnect();

10. Reading the Response on Failed Requests:
If the request fails, trying to read the InputStream of the HttpUrlConnection instance won't work. Instead, we can consume the stream provided by HttpUrlConnection.getErrorStream().

        int status = con.getResponseCode();

        Reader streamReader = null;

        if (status > 299) {
            streamReader = new InputStreamReader(con.getErrorStream());
        } else {
            streamReader = new InputStreamReader(con.getInputStream());
        }

11. Building the Full Response:

We can build it using some of the methods that the HttpUrlConnection instance offers:

        public class FullResponseBuilder {
            public static String getFullResponse(HttpURLConnection con) throws IOException {
                StringBuilder fullResponseBuilder = new StringBuilder();

                // read status and message

                // read headers

                // read response content

                return fullResponseBuilder.toString();
            }
        }

        fullResponseBuilder.append(con.getResponseCode())
        .append(" ")
        .append(con.getResponseMessage())
        .append("\n");

        con.getHeaderFields().entrySet().stream()
        .filter(entry -> entry.getKey() != null)
        .forEach(entry -> {
            fullResponseBuilder.append(entry.getKey()).append(": ");
            List headerValues = entry.getValue();
            Iterator it = headerValues.iterator();
            if (it.hasNext()) {
                fullResponseBuilder.append(it.next());
                while (it.hasNext()) {
                    fullResponseBuilder.append(", ").append(it.next());
                }
            }
            fullResponseBuilder.append("\n");
        });

***Finally, we'll read the response content as we did previously and append it.***



**resources:** 

*https://dev.to/dangolant/things-i-brushed-up-on-this-week-the-http-request-lifecycle-*

*https://www.baeldung.com/java-http-request*




## Things I want to know more about
+ HTTP, TCP and UDP protcols.
+ Requests life cycle.
+ Directing requests through the internet.
+ DNS servers.
+ Piping.



[Home Page](../README.md)
