## **Course 401: Read 03**


### **Primitives vs. Objects:**
#### *Java Type System:*
Java has a two-fold type system consisting of primitives such as int, boolean and reference types such as Integer, Boolean. Every primitive type corresponds to a reference type.

#### *Pros & Cons:*
+ **Single Item Memory Footprint**
Single variable of Boolean type occupies as much space as 128 primitive ones, while one Integer variable occupies as much space as four int ones.

+ **Memory Footprint for Arrays**
Surprisingly, arrays of the primitive types long and double consume more memory than their wrapper classes Long and Double. We can see either that single-element arrays of primitive types are almost always more expensive (except for long and double) than the corresponding reference type.

+ **Performance**
Even for such a simple operation, we can see that it's required more time to perform the operation for wrapper classes. In case of more complicated operations like summation, multiplication or division, the difference in speed might skyrocket.

+ **Default Values**
It means that the primitive types may acquire values only from their domains, while the reference types might acquire a value (null) that in some sense doesn't belong to their domains. There's no such a problem with a wrapper class variables since the null value is quite an evident indication that the variable hasn't been initialized.

#### *Conclusion:*
As we've seen, the primitive types are much faster and require much less memory. Therefore, we might want to prefer using them.

On the other hand, current Java language specification doesn't allow usage of primitive types in the parametrized types (generics),  in the Java collections or the Reflection API.

When our application needs collections with a big number of elements, we should consider using arrays with as more “economical” type as possible, as it's illustrated on the plot above.


### **Exceptions in Java:**
#### *What Is an Exception?*
Definition: An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program, that disrupts the normal flow of the program's instructions.

When an error occurs within a method, the method creates an object and hands it off to the runtime system. The object, called an exception object, contains information about the error, including its type and the state of the program when the error occurred. Creating an exception object and handing it to the runtime system is called throwing an exception.

After a method throws an exception, the runtime system attempts to find something to handle it. The set of possible "somethings" to handle the exception is the ordered list of methods that had been called to get to the method where the error occurred. The list of methods is known as the call stack.

#### *The Catch or Specify Requirement*
Valid Java programming language code must honor the Catch or Specify Requirement. This means that code that might throw certain exceptions must be enclosed by either of the following:

+ A try statement that catches the exception. The try must provide a handler for the exception, as described in Catching and Handling Exceptions.
+ A method that specifies that it can throw the exception. The method must provide a throws clause that lists the exception, as described in Specifying the Exceptions Thrown by a Method.

**There are three kinds of exceptions:**
+ Checked exceptions.
+ Runtime exceptions.
+ Unchecked exceptions.


### **Using Scanner to read in a file in Java:**
#### *Breaking Input into Tokens*
By default, a scanner uses white space to separate tokens.
But note that even though a scanner is not a stream, you need to close it to indicate that you're done with its underlying stream.

#### *Translating Individual Tokens*
Scanner also supports tokens for all of the Java language's primitive types (except for char), as well as BigInteger and BigDecimal. Also, numeric values can use thousands separators. Thus, in a US locale, Scanner correctly reads the string "32,767" as representing an integer value.


**resources:** 
*https://www.baeldung.com/java-primitives-vs-objects*
*https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/exceptions/index.html*
*https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/io/scanning.html*


## Things I want to know more about
+ More about exceptions ,its syntax and how to use them.
+ How to use scanners and input data from the user.



[Home Page](../README.md)
