## **Course 401: Read 16**


### **Spring Security overview:**
#### **Authentication**
The main strategy interface for authentication is AuthenticationManager. An AuthenticationManager can do one of 3 things in its authenticate() method:
+ Return an Authentication (normally with authenticated=true) if it can verify that the input represents a valid principal.
+ Throw an AuthenticationException if it believes that the input represents an invalid principal.
+ Return null if it cannot decide.

Sometimes, an application has logical groups of protected resources (for example, all web resources that match a path pattern, such as /api/**), and each group can have its own dedicated AuthenticationManager. Often, each of those is a ProviderManager, and they share a parent. The parent is then a kind of “global” resource, acting as a fallback for all providers.



#### **Authorization or Access Control**
Once authentication is successful, we can move on to authorization, and the core strategy here is AccessDecisionManager. There are three implementations provided by the framework and all three delegate to a chain of AccessDecisionVoter instances, a bit like the ProviderManager delegates to AuthenticationProviders.

Most people use the default AccessDecisionManager, which is AffirmativeBased (if any voters return affirmatively, access is granted). Any customization tends to happen in the voters, either by adding new ones or modifying the way that the existing ones work.


#### **Web Security**
Spring Security in the web tier (for UIs and HTTP back ends) is based on Servlet Filters, so it is helpful to first look at the role of Filters generally.

The client sends a request to the application, and the container decides which filters and which servlet apply to it based on the path of the request URI. At most, one servlet can handle a single request, but filters form a chain, so they are ordered. In fact, a filter can veto the rest of the chain if it wants to handle the request itself. A filter can also modify the request or the response used in the downstream filters and servlet. The order of the filter chain is very important, and Spring Boot manages it through two mechanisms: @Beans of type Filter can have an @Order or implement Ordered, and they can be part of a FilterRegistrationBean that itself has an order as part of its API. Some off-the-shelf filters define their own constants to help signal what order they like to be in relative to each other (for example, the SessionRepositoryFilter from Spring Session has a DEFAULT_ORDER of Integer.MIN_VALUE + 50, which tells us it likes to be early in the chain, but it does not rule out other filters coming before it).

A vanilla Spring Boot application with no custom security configuration has a several (call it n) filter chains, where usually n=6. The first (n-1) chains are there just to ignore static resource patterns, like /css/** and /images/\*\*, and the error view: /error. (The paths can be controlled by the user with security.ignored from the SecurityProperties configuration bean.) The last chain matches the catch-all path (/**) and is more active, containing logic for authentication, authorization, exception handling, session handling, header writing, and so on. There are a total of 11 filters in this chain by default, but normally it is not necessary for users to concern themselves with which filters are used and when.



**resources:** 

*https://spring.io/guides/topicals/spring-security-architecture/*

*https://github.com/codefellows/seattle-java-401d2/blob/master/SpringAuthCheatSheet.md*




[Home Page](../README.md)
